What I got here is this application we build earlier in the course with the native device features with
the camera maps and so on.
This is the app I want to deploy.
And this is now how we can configure it to be deployed in the managed export workflow.
As I mentioned.
So what can we do.
Now we should have a look at the app Chase and file because that's the file or we can generally configure
this app for deployment and for publishing it.
And I want to walk you through some of the core settings you can make here and you should make here
though let me all the points you add do you official docs the official Expo docs where you also have
a full article about configuring the app Jason file you will find this article attached or a link to
it attached to this lecture and there you learn all about the possible settings you can sit up there
and what they mean what they do and to where you would need them for.
So there's a lot you can configure but for a basic deployment most of these things don't matter.
So what we have here for example is the name of our project and there I will use great places.
This is also the name that will show up on the home screen when you built this app as a standalone app.
And I'll go back to what a standalone app is in a second.
Now here we also can add a slug and that should be like this in the U or L format so that this could
be part of a U R L and you'll see where disk becomes important in a second as well.
The same for our privacy public.
We can leave this here at Public for the moment but again does this something which I'll explain in
more details in a second.
The SDK works here simply identifies the SDK version of the Expo SDK you're using typically this should
be delayed as one though of course if you were building the app with let's say Expo SDK 30 free and
then whilst you're building it a new word and comes out you should always follow the update or the upgrade
guides which are released along with the new export version.
New export versions simply means that some features could change that maybe some breaking changes were
added some bug fixes.
So typically you want to upgrade but you want to follow the upgrade instructions though you don't have
to use the latest version here to be able to deploy it.
You can also deploy an older version your platforms that should be self explanatory.
You can describe for which platforms you want to publish and I'll remove Web here because we haven't
really focused on that and support for it also is still kind of experimental.
So let's go with Iaw and Android then you can set a word in and this number is totally up to you in
the end.
You should just manage to work in such that whenever you publish a new version of your app you change
that and you have free numbers which you can change where typically the last number should be changed
if a new version only includes tiny bug fixes but no major new features the middle number should be
changed if you have a new version that does introduce Major were important new features.
And the first number should be changed whenever you have a real major new word.
And that might also very well include some breaking changes or some huge changes.
So that's kind of something which also signals your users if it's a rather big important update or just
a small one just a small fix.
Orientation is a setting we already saw earlier in the course.
There you can lock the orientation off your app.
You can set it to default to allow for rotation or for rotating gap.
You can set it to portrait or landscape mode to lock it down icon and splash screen.
That's something I'll come back to in separate lectures soon.
This allows you to set an app icon and the app splash screen and you just set a pointer at a input source
that a basic file and then Expo will generate a bunch of icons for a different device sizes different
screen sizes which is really convenient.
But again I'll come back to this in more details later updates.
There's also something I'll come back to that's related to the over the air update thing which is a
very interesting asset bundle patterns.
Also something I'll come back to this kind of has an impact on how extra assets like images that are
part of your app.
And with that I don't mean the icon but images to which you display in your app which you store locally
or funds which you might be using.
How those are distributed.
But again I'll come back to this and then you can also set platform specific settings here for Iaw and
Android.
Now if you want to publish your app you can do this in a very simple way.
You just need to run Expo publish.
Now when you first run this you will be prompted to log in with your expo account or create a new one
if you don't have one yet.
So simply create one it's free it doesn't cost you anything you just need to create one you can do this
on the fly off after running Expo publish.
As I said you will be prompted to create an account or log in if you aren't already.
And there you can create the account on the go in this command line here.
All you need is a email a username and password.
Once you did this and you run Expo publish this will try to publish your app and no worries it will
not immediately publish it to the app stores now.
Instead let's see what happens if we tried to do this.
It now builds a javascript bundle for Android and also for Iowa's it also gave us a warning by the way
regarding our assets not being optimized.
That's something we can have a look at in a second.
And with all of that it's now uploading the javascript bundles.
We don't know where but we'll see in a second.
And now it's done.
So did it now create an app and upload it to the app stores.
No that's not what happened here.
Instead what it did here is it created deployment.
It published our app to export.
So what you can do now is you can entered a U or L which was displayed here.
What you find is your app now hosted on expos servers.
So to say and you can scan this barcode here with a real device with the expo client app.
So basically what we already did during development can now be done with our published app.
So let me briefly show this to you.
Here's my iPhone and now again I just point my camera at this QR code or with Android you open your
expo app and candy bar code there and now you can open that app in Expo.
Now again you need the expo Klein installed for this.
Now what you'll also see here on the screen however is a warning that I can't open this app because
I'm not the offer of the experience.
So the expo plan on our Web site as you see here can no longer open published projects that don't belong
to the signed end user.
Now that's a Iow limitation on Android.
You would be able to open this app but of course the question is in general why would we publish our
app like this.
It's very hard to reach users with this.
They need to have the expo client app installed which almost no one has in the world.
Probably just a couple of react native developers.
So this is not really how we want to distribute our app right.
While this is just one step of distributing our app and this is actually not how we aim to targeted
or how we aim to get it to all users over the world.
Instead this is just one step of publishing it to the app stores this still is a nice step for you to
now easily test your app or to share it with our users especially on Android on ISIS.
Unfortunately there are some limitations where you can't test it.
But with Android devices you can scandals and you can share an app across users you can show it to your
friend and all this friend needs is the expert client app and you can scan this code and run the app
you just build on his device.
So for this it's nice but of course this is not the final solution for really publishing this to unknown
users.